1.  A. Write a program for error detection using CRC-CCITT (16-bits). B. Write a client-server program using TCP/IP sockets in which client requests for a file by sending the file name to the server, and the server sends back the contents of the requested file if present. 2.  A. Write a program to generate Hamming Code for error detection and correction. B. Simulate using NS3 a four node point-to-point network, and connect the links as follows: n0-n2, n1-n2 and n2-n3. Apply TCP agent between n0-n3 and UDP agent between n1-n3. Apply relevant applications over TCP and UDP agents by changing the parameters and determine the number of packets sent by TCP/UDP. 3. A.  Trace Hypertext Transfer Protocol. The Basic HTTP GET/response interaction URL: http://gaia.cs.umass.edu/wireshark-labs/HTTP-wireshark-file1.html a) Is your browser running HTTP version 1.0 or 1.1? What version of HTTP is the server running? b) What languages does your browser indicate that it can accept from the server? c) What is the status code returned from the server to your browser? d) When was the HTML file, that you are retrieving last modified at the server? e) How many bytes of content are being returned to your browser? The HTTP CONDITIONAL GET/response interaction URL :  http://gaia.cs.umass.edu/wireshark-labs/HTTP-wireshark-file2.html a. Inspect the contents of the first HTTP GET request from your browser to the server. Do you see an “IF-MODIFIED-SINCE” line in the HTTP GET? b. Inspect the contents of the server response. Did the server explicitly return the contents of the file? How can you tell? c. Now inspect the contents of the second HTTP GET request from your browser to the server. Do you see an “IF-MODIFIED-SINCE:” line in the HTTP GET? If so, what information follows the “IF-MODIFIED-SINCE:” header? d. What is the HTTP status code and phrase returned from the server in response to this second HTTP GET? Did the server explicitly return the contents of the file? Explain. B.  Simulate using NS3 a three nodes point-to-point network with duplex links between them. Set the queue size vary the bandwidth and find the number of packets dropped   

 
4. A. Trace Hypertext Transfer Protocol  Retrieving Long Documents URL: http://gaia.cs.umass.edu/wireshark-labs/HTTP-wireshark-file3.html a. How many HTTP GET request messages were sent by your browser? b. How many data-containing TCP segments were needed to carry the single HTTP Response ? c. What is the status code and phrase associated with the response to the HTTP GET Request ? HTML Documents with Embedded Objects http://gaia.cs.umass.edu/wireshark-labs/HTTP-wireshark-file4.html a. How many HTTP GET request messages were sent by your browser? To which Internet addresses were these GET requests sent? b. Can you tell whether your browser downloaded the two images serially, or whether they were downloaded from the two web sites in parallel? Explain. HTTP Authentication URL:   http://gaia.cs.umass.edu/wireshark-labs/protected_pages/HTTP-wireshark-file5.html a. What is the server’s response (status code and phrase) in response to the initial HTTP GET message from your browser? b. When your browser sends the HTTP GET message for the second time, what new field is included in the HTTP GET message? B. Simulate using NS3 simple Extended Service Set with transmitting nodes in wireless LAN and determine the performance with respect to transmission of packets 5. A.Trace Packets using Wireshark for DNS and Answer the following Questions URL:  http://www.ietf.org 
a) Locate the DNS query and response messages. Are they sent over UDP or TCP? b) What is the destination port for the DNS query message? What is the source port of DNS response message? c) To what IP address is the DNS query message sent? Use ipconfig to determine the IP address of your local DNS server. Are these two IP addresses the same? d) Examine the  DNS  query  message.  What  “Type”  of  DNS  query  is  it?  Does  the query message contain any “answers”? e) Examine the DNS response message. How many “answers” are provided? What does each of these answers contain? f) Consider the  subsequent  TCP  SYN  packet  sent  by  your  host.  Does  the  destination IP address of the SYN packet correspond to any of the IP addresses provided in the DNS response message? g) This  web  page  contains  images.  Before  retrieving  each   image,   does   your host issue new DNS queries? Use  nslookup –type=NS mit.edu and answer the following h) To what IP address is the DNS query message sent? Is this the IP address of your default local DNS server? i) Examine the DNS query message. What “Type” of DNS query is it? Does the query message contain any “answers”? a. Examine the DNS response message. What MIT name servers does the response message provide? Does this response message also provide the IP addresses of the MIT name servers? B.  Simulate using NS3 a wireless network, generate traffic and analyze its performance 